---
layout: default
title: Exercise two
long_title: Exercise two
link: /Exercise-Two
category: procurement
menu: 
weight: 
---

### Example 1

1. Intellectual Property Rights

1.1 All Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) subsisting in any content, including any data, databases, documents, website(s), specifications, instructions, toolkits, plans, patents, patterns, models, designs or other material:

a) furnished to or made available to the Contractor by or on behalf of the Authority will remain the property of the Authority; and

b) prepared by or for the Contractor on behalf of the Authority for use, or intended use, in relation to the performance by the Contractor of its obligations under this Contract will belong to the Authority, (the “IP Materials”).

1.2 The Contractor hereby assigns to the Authority, with full title guarantee, all Intellectual Property Rights which may subsist in the IP Materials. This assignment will take effect on the date of this Contract or as a present assignment of future rights that will take effect immediately on the coming into existence of such Intellectual Property Rights.

1.3 The Contractor will execute all documentation reasonably necessary to execute this assignment.

1.4 The Contractor will waive or procure a waiver of any moral rights arising out of or in connection with the Intellectual Property Rights required to be assigned, licensed or sub-licensed to the Authority.

1.5 The Contractor grants to the Authority a royalty-free, irrevocable and non-exclusive licence (with a right to sub-license) to use any Intellectual Property Rights apart from those referred to in clause 1.1 that the Contractor owned or developed prior to the Commencement Date and which the Authority reasonably requires in order to exercise its rights and take the benefit of this Contract including the Services provided. For the avoidance of doubt, no royalties, licence fees or similar expenses for the supply or use of any invention, process, drawing, model, plan or information in connection with this Contract shall be payable by the Authority.

1.6 The Authority shall license the IP Materials referred to in clause 1.1 under the Open Government Licence.

### Example 2

*Definitions*

Arising Intellectual Property shall mean any Intellectual Property that which is generated directly as a result of providing the services.

Background Intellectual Property shall mean any Intellectual Property excluding the Arising Intellectual Property, owned by controlled by either Party prior to the commencement of the Contract

Intellectual Property shall mean intellectual property of any description including but not limited to any data, databases, documents, website(s), specifications, instructions, toolkits, plans, patents, patterns, models, designs or other material

*Terms and conditions*

1. Intellectual Property Rights

1.1 All Background Intellectual Property used in connection with providing the services shall remain the property of the Party introducing the same. No Party shall make any representation or do any act which may be taken to indicate that that it has any right, title or interest in or to the ownership of any of the Background Intellectual Property of the other Party.

1.2 The Authority grants to the Contractor a royalty free, non-exclusive license for the duration of the Contract to use its Background Intellectual Property for the sole purpose of carrying out the services.

1.3 The Contractor grants to the Authority a royalty free, non-exclusive license for the duration of the Contract to use its Background Intellectual Property.

1.4 Each Party shall own the Arising Intellectual Property generated by its employees during this contract.

1.5 Any information derived from the Authority's Background Intellectual Property is deemed to form part of the Authority's Background Intellectual Property.

1.6 Any information derived from the Contractor's Background Intellectual Property is deemed to form part of the Contractor's Background Intellectual Property.

1.7 Where any Arising Intellectual Property is created or generated such that it is impossible to segregate each party's intellectual property, the Arising Intellectual Property will be jointly owned by the parties in equal shares.

### Example 3

*Definitions*

Arising Intellectual Property shall mean any Intellectual Property that which is generated directly as a result of providing the services.

Background Intellectual Property shall mean any Intellectual Property excluding the Arising Intellectual Property, owned by controlled by either party prior to the commencement of the Contract

Intellectual Property shall mean intellectual property of any description including but not limited to any data, databases, documents, website(s), specifications, instructions, toolkits, plans, patents, patterns, models, designs or other material

*Terms and Conditions*

1.1 All Background Intellectual Property used in connection with providing the services shall remain the property of the party introducing the same. No Party shall make any representation or do any act which may be taken to indicate that that it has any right, title or interest in or to the ownership of any of the Background Intellectual Property of the other party.

1.2 All Arising Intellectual Property produced by the Contractor from the Authority's Background Intellectual Property shall belong to the Authority. 

1.3 The Contractor grants to the Authority a royalty-free, irrevocable and non-exclusive licence (with a right to sub-license) to use any of the Contractor's Background Intellectual Property which the Authority reasonably requires in order to exercise its rights and take the benefit of this Contract including the Services provided. For the avoidance of doubt, no royalties, licence fees or similar expenses for the supply or use of any invention, process, drawing, model, plan or information in connection with this Contract shall be payable by the Authority.

1.4 The Authority grants to the Contractor an exclusive license for the duration of the Contract to use and commercially exploit the Authority's Arising Intellectual Property.

### Example 4

1. Data

1.1 The Contractor shall employ appropriate organisational, operational and technological processes and procedures to keep the Data safe from unauthorised use or access, loss, destruction, theft or disclosure.  The organisational, operational and technological processes and procedures adopted are required to comply with the requirements of ISO/IEC 27001 as appropriate to the services being provided to the Authority.

1.2 To the extent that the Data is held and/or processed by the Contractor, the Contractor shall supply the Data to the Authority as requested, in the format specified by the Authority.

1.3 The Contractor shall take responsibility for preserving the integrity of the Data and preventing the corruption or loss of the Data.

1.4 The Contractor shall perform secure back-ups of all the Data and shall ensure that up-to-date back-ups are stored off-site.  The Contractor shall ensure that such back-ups are available to the Authority at all times upon request.

1.5 If the Data is corrupted, lost or sufficiently degraded as a result of the Contractor's Default so as to be unusable, the Authority may:
a) require the Contractor at the Contractor's expense to restore or procure the restoration of the Data as soon as practicable and/or
b) itself restore or procure the restoration of the Data, and shall be repaid by the Contractor any reasonable expenses incurred in doing so.

2. Intellectual Property Rights

2.1 Title to any tangible property used to deliver the services shall vest in the Contractor.

2.2 Notwithstanding clause 2.1, the Authority shall acquire title to the Intellectual Property Rights in any Specially Written Software.

2.3 The Contractor hereby grants, or shall procure that the owner of the Intellectual Property Rights in the Contractor Software grants, to the Authority, a perpetual non-exclusive licence to use, reproduce, modify, adapt and enhance the Contractor Software.

2.4 The Contractor shall supply the Authority with a copy of the source code of any Specially Written Software used to process the Data.

2.5 The Authority shall be entitled to engage a third party to use, reproduce, modify and enhance the Specially Written Software on behalf of the Authority.

### Example 5

*Definitions*

Open Government Licence shall mean the UK Government's Open Licence which facilitates the use and re-use of Public Sector information that is protected by copyright and database rights. Details of the Open Government Licence can be found at:
http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2 

1. Intellectual Property Rights

1.1 All Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) subsisting in any content, including any data, databases, documents, specifications, instructions, toolkits, plans, patents, patterns, models, designs or other material furnished to or made available to the Contractor by or on behalf of the Authority will remain the property of the Authority (the “Authority IP Materials”)

1.2 All Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) subsisting in any content, including any data, databases, documents, website(s), specifications, instructions, toolkits, plans, patents, patterns, models, designs prepared by or for the Contractor in relation to the performance by the Contractor of its obligations under this Contract will belong to the Contractor, (the “Contractor IP Materials”).

1.3 The Authority shall license the Authority IP Materials referred to in clause 1.1 under the Open Government Licence.

1.4 The Contractor shall license the Contractor IP Materials referred to in clause 1.2 under the Open Government Licence.

## Notes

### Example 1

Example 1 ensures the Authority owns the assets  (clause 1.1 and 1.4), placing an obligation on the Contractor to explicitly assign any intellectual property it creates to the Authority (clauses 1.2 and 1.3). The Authority's interests are further protected by 1.5, that covers any materials not covered by 1.1.
 
Cause 1.6 is important for both parties. In particular it gives an assurance to the Contractor that they can use, re-use adapt and commercially exploit any of the assets they develop under this contract elsewhere, as they will be made available under the Open Government Licence.

It would be good practice if elsewhere in this contract there were a obligation on the Contractor to maintain an inventory of intellectual property assets used to deliver the services.

### Example 2

Example 2 is ostensibly fair, both parties own the intellectual property assets they bring to the table and any derived intellectual property. However the likely consequence is that the contractor generates new or additional information (the Arising Intellectual Property), as a result of operating the contract that the Authority has no right or claim over. 

This is bad for two reasons:
a) the Authority can’t open up data that it doesn’t own
b) the Authority is potentially locked in to its incumbent supplier

### Example 3

Example 3 is bad because it grants the Contractor an exclusive license for the duration of the Contract to use and commercially exploit the Authority's Arising Intellectual Property. This is in contravention to the Re-use of Public Sector Information Regulations 2005 (SI 2005/1515), which prohibits exclusive licences.

### Example 4

Example 4 places lots of obligations on the Contractor regarding the Data, in terms of how it is processed. It also deals with the Intellectual Property Rights of any Bespoke Software developed by the contractor to process the data.

However, Example 4 is bad, because it does not address the Intellectual Property of the Data - whilst dealing with lots of other data issues.

### Example 5

Example 5 uses conditions about what licence the parties should use (specifically the Open Government Licence), rather than ownership of the intellectual property, as a way of ensuring the assets are open and available for re-use. By specifying an open licence it protects the Authority from being locked in to a particular supplier.

It is an alternative good approach to Example 1, relying on licensing rather than control through ownership, to meet open data needs. The Open Government Licence covers both copyright and database rights. However it excludes any personal data, so this approach only works for non-personal data. It would be a poor option in the case of the Lobbyist Register, as that is likely to contain some personally identifiable information. 

It would be good practice if elsewhere in this contract there were a obligations on the parties to maintain an inventory of intellectual property assets used to deliver the services.
